README.md, before:

# Mashov – Home Assistant Integration (HACS)

Unofficial integration for **משו"ב (Mashov)** that logs into the student portal and exposes data as sensors:
- **Weekly Plan**
- **Homework**
- **Behavior**
- **Timetable** (weekly timetable per student)
- **Lessons History** (historical lessons/logs per student)
- Global **Holidays** (school holidays calendar)

> This project is **community-made** and not affiliated with Mashov. Use at your own risk and follow your school's policies.

---





## 🧩 Features
- Simple **Config Flow (UI)** via Settings → Devices & Services → Add Integration → **Mashov**.
- **Daily refresh** (02:30 by default) + `mashov.refresh_now` service for on-demand updates.
- **Sensors** expose compact **state** (count) + rich **attributes** (lists you can use in automations / dashboards).
- **Calendar entity** for school holidays - integrates with Home Assistant calendar view 📅
- **Diagnostics** endpoint for safe issue reporting (redacts credentials).

---

## 📦 Installation

### Via HACS (recommended)
1. Open **HACS → Integrations → ⋯ → Custom repositories**.
2. Add repository URL: `https://github.com/NirBY/ha-mashov`. Select **Category: Integration**.
3. Search for **Mashov** in HACS, install, and **Restart Home Assistant**.

### Manual
1. Copy `custom_components/mashov` into your HA `/config/` folder.
2. Restart Home Assistant.

> The integration includes custom `icon.png` and `logo.png` for better visuals in Home Assistant.

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

1. **Add Integration → Mashov**.
2. Enter **username / password**.
3. Pick your **school** from the dropdown with **fast autocomplete** (type to filter). If the list doesn't load, a text field appears; type the **school name in Hebrew** or the **Semel** and we'll resolve it.
4. Done — sensors for **each child** will be created.

### Options

To configure options, go to: **Settings → Devices & Services → Mashov → Configure**

- **Homework window**: days back (default 7), days forward (default 21)
- **Daily refresh time**: default `02:30`
- **API base**: default `https://web.mashov.info/api/` (override if your deployment differs)
- **Max items in attributes**: maximum items to store in sensor attributes (default 100, range: 10-500)
  - Controls how many recent items are stored in sensor attributes to prevent database size issues
  - Sensors automatically clean technical fields and limit size to fit within Home Assistant's 16KB limit
  - Full data is always available via `coordinator.data` for advanced automations
  - Attributes show `total_items` (all available) and `stored_items` (actually stored in attributes)

#### Important note about night-time polling
- Pulling data at night may trigger email notifications from Mashov about account activity/logins. If this is undesirable:
  - Prefer scheduling the daily/weekly refresh to daytime hours (e.g., `14:00`).
  - Use the Options screen or YAML to set `schedule_type` and `schedule_time` accordingly.
  - Avoid long-running `interval` mode during overnight hours.

### Configuration via configuration.yaml (optional)
You can also configure the refresh schedule via YAML. Values in YAML override the Options UI.

```yaml
mashov:
  # Scheduling
  schedule_type: daily        # daily | weekly | interval
  schedule_time: "14:00"      # for daily/weekly
  schedule_day: 0             # 0=Monday ... 6=Sunday
  schedule_days: [0, 2, 4]    # optional multiple days for weekly
  schedule_interval: 120      # minutes (for interval mode)

  # Other (optional)
  homework_days_back: 7
  homework_days_forward: 21
  api_base: "https://web.mashov.info/api/"
  max_items_in_attributes: 100  # 10-500, limits items stored in DB
```

---

## 🧠 Entities (per child)

For each child **N**, these sensors are created:

- **Weekly Plan** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_weekly_plan`
- **Homework** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_homework`
- **Behavior** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_behavior`
- **Timetable** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_timetable`
- **Lessons History** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_lessons_history`
- **Grades** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_grades` – 🆕 **New in v1.0.3**

**State** = number of items.  
**Attributes** (common): `items`, `formatted_summary`, `formatted_by_date`, `formatted_by_subject` (and for timetable: also table helpers).

> **Tip**: Use `{{ state_attr('sensor.mashov_<id>_homework', 'items') }}` to access raw lists.
>
> **Note**: The `items` attribute contains cleaned, size-optimized recent items (technical fields removed). To see all items:
> - `total_items` = total number of items available
> - `stored_items` = number of items in the `items` attribute
> - Full raw data is always available via `coordinator.data` for advanced automations

### Global Entities
- **Holidays Sensor** – `sensor.mashov_holidays`  
  State = number of holidays. Attributes: `items`, `formatted_summary`, `formatted_by_date`.

- **Holidays Calendar** – `calendar.mashov_holidays_calendar` – 🆕 **New in v1.0.3**  
  Full calendar integration for school holidays. Shows events in Home Assistant calendar view with start/end dates.  
  _Contributed by [@aviadlevy](https://github.com/aviadlevy)_

---

## 🔔 Automation Blueprint: Daily Homework & Behavior Announcement

A ready-to-use blueprint that speaks today's homework and behavior in Hebrew at a fixed time, with safe defaults and volume handling.

One‑click import (My Home Assistant):

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the blueprint import dialog with a specific blueprint URL.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/blueprint_import.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fmain%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fmashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml)

If you hit a cache issue when importing, use the commit‑pinned link:

[Import pinned version](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fe9aade5%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fmashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml)

Blueprint file location: `blueprints/automation/mashov/mashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml`.

What does it do?
- Daily voice announcement at **15:00** that reads the student’s **name**, **today’s behaviors**, and **today’s homework** (Hebrew).
- Runs **only in daytime** and **skips holidays** using your Mashov holidays sensor (`Items[start/end]`).
- Triggers **only if there is data for today** in the homework and/or behavior sensors.
- Temporarily **sets the speaker to max volume**, speaks via **`tts.speak`** (configurable), then **restores the original volume** after playback.
- Works with any `media_player` (Sonos, Nest, etc.); volume restore is state-aware.
- Fully **templated blueprint**: select your own Mashov sensors and speaker at import time.
- Safe defaults: 15:00 schedule, Hebrew (`he-IL`) TTS, 07:00–22:00 guard rails.
- GitHub-friendly: no hardcoded entity IDs; can be imported with a **My Home Assistant** one-click link.

How to use
1. Click the import button above and select your `holiday_sensor`, `homework_sensor`, `behavior_sensor`, `media_player`, and optional `tts_service`.
2. Save the automation. By default it runs every day at 15:00.

---

## 🎒 Automation Blueprint: Bag Reminder (Tomorrow's Subjects)

One‑click import (My Home Assistant):

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the blueprint import dialog with a specific blueprint URL.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/blueprint_import.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fmain%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fbag_reminder_tomorrow.yaml)

What does it do?
- Runs once daily at 18:00 to help a student pack their school bag for tomorrow.
- Skips automatically if it’s night-time, Saturday, or a listed holiday (from the holiday sensor).
- Reads tomorrow’s subjects only when timetable data actually exists for tomorrow.
- Builds a Hebrew TTS message: “שלום {Student}… אנא לסדר תיק למחר… {subjects + teacher names [+ plan]}”.
- Temporarily raises the speaker to a configurable max volume, then restores the previous (or fallback) volume after TTS ends.
- Pulls subjects and teacher names from the Mashov timetable; optionally appends each lesson’s “plan” from the weekly plan sensor.
- Waits for the speaker state to finish playing before restoring volume, to avoid cutting the message.
- Provides rich trace/log lines explaining why it ran or skipped (night block, Saturday, holiday, has data).

Blueprint file location: `blueprints/automation/mashov/bag_reminder_tomorrow.yaml`.

How to use
1. Click the import button above, pick your Mashov timetable sensor, (optional) weekly plan sensor, holiday sensor, media player and voice settings.
2. Save the automation. Defaults: 18:00, Hebrew, night guard 22:00–07:00.

---

## 🛠️ Services

### `mashov.refresh_now`
Trigger an immediate refresh.
```yaml
service: mashov.refresh_now
data:
  entry_id: YOUR_ENTRY_ID  # optional; if omitted, all entries refresh
```

Calling without `entry_id` refreshes all configured Mashov hubs.

---

## 🧱 Lovelace Cards (Examples)
You can quickly add cards to display Mashov data. Use `!include` to import ready-made cards.

Files:
- `examples/lovelace/cards/weekly_plan_table_advanced.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/behavior_list_by_date.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/homework_list_by_date.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/refresh_all_button.yaml`

Copy these files into your Home Assistant config at `/config/lovelace/cards/examples/`, then reference them like this:

Note: HACS installs only `custom_components/`. Copy the example card files to your `/config/examples/` (or paste the YAML into UI cards) if you want to use `!include`.

Advanced weekly plan (table) via include:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/weekly_plan_table_advanced.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/weekly_plan_table_advanced.png" alt="Weekly timetable + plan + holidays" width="50%" style="max-width:50%; height:auto;" /></p>

Behavior events grouped by date:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/behavior_list_by_date.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/behavior_list_by_date.png" alt="Behavior grouped by date" width="30%" style="max-width:30%; height:auto;" /></p>

Homework grouped by date:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/homework_list_by_date.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/homework_list_by_date.png" alt="Homework grouped by date" width="30%" style="max-width:30%; height:auto;" /></p>

Refresh all hubs button:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/refresh_all_button.yaml
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

- **401 / 403**: re-check credentials and school choice. Try **Reconfigure** or **Remove & Add** the integration again.
- **Different host**: open **Options → API base** and paste the base prefix you see in your browser DevTools Network tab (up to `/api/`).  
  Common defaults: `https://web.mashov.info/api/`, sometimes `https://mobileapi.mashov.info/api/`.
- **No schools in dropdown**: temporary catalog issue — the flow falls back to text; enter the name or Semel to resolve.
- **Autocomplete not working**: the dropdown is limited to 200 schools for performance; try typing the school name to filter the list.
- **Multiple kids missing**: ensure your account actually lists multiple students in Mashov. Check HA logs for `custom_components.mashov` debug entries.
- **Session errors**: if you see "Unclosed client session" errors, restart Home Assistant to clear any stale connections.

### Enable debug logs
```yaml
logger:
  logs:
    custom_components.mashov: debug
```

---

## 🔐 Privacy & Security
- Credentials are stored by Home Assistant in the config entry store.
- The integration mirrors the Mashov web client behavior (headers, cookies, API calls). Endpoints may change without notice.

---

## 📄 License
MIT © 2025


---

## 📜 Changelog
See the full changelog in `CHANGELOG.md`.

Commit message:

Fix race condition and add session persistence (v1.0.5-beta1)

README.md, after:

# Mashov – Home Assistant Integration (HACS)

Unofficial integration for **משו"ב (Mashov)** that logs into the student portal and exposes data as sensors:
- **Weekly Plan**
- **Homework**
- **Behavior**
- **Timetable** (weekly timetable per student)
- **Lessons History** (historical lessons/logs per student)
- Global **Holidays** (school holidays calendar)

> This project is **community-made** and not affiliated with Mashov. Use at your own risk and follow your school's policies.

---





## 🧩 Features
- Simple **Config Flow (UI)** via Settings → Devices & Services → Add Integration → **Mashov**.
- **Daily refresh** (02:30 by default) + `mashov.refresh_now` service for on-demand updates.
- **Sensors** expose compact **state** (count) + rich **attributes** (lists you can use in automations / dashboards).
- **Calendar entity** for school holidays - integrates with Home Assistant calendar view 📅
- **Diagnostics** endpoint for safe issue reporting (redacts credentials).

---

## 📦 Installation

### Via HACS (recommended)
1. Open **HACS → Integrations → ⋯ → Custom repositories**.
2. Add repository URL: `https://github.com/NirBY/ha-mashov`. Select **Category: Integration**.
3. Search for **Mashov** in HACS, install, and **Restart Home Assistant**.

### Manual
1. Copy `custom_components/mashov` into your HA `/config/` folder.
2. Restart Home Assistant.

> The integration includes custom `icon.png` and `logo.png` for better visuals in Home Assistant.

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

1. **Add Integration → Mashov**.
2. Enter **username / password**.
3. Pick your **school** from the dropdown with **fast autocomplete** (type to filter). If the list doesn't load, a text field appears; type the **school name in Hebrew** or the **Semel** and we'll resolve it.
4. Done — sensors for **each child** will be created.

### Options

To configure options, go to: **Settings → Devices & Services → Mashov → Configure**

- **Homework window**: days back (default 7), days forward (default 21)
- **Daily refresh time**: default `02:30`
- **API base**: default `https://web.mashov.info/api/` (override if your deployment differs)
- **Max items in attributes**: maximum items to store in sensor attributes (default 100, range: 10-500)
  - Controls how many recent items are stored in sensor attributes to prevent database size issues
  - Sensors automatically clean technical fields and limit size to fit within Home Assistant's 16KB limit
  - Full data is always available via `coordinator.data` for advanced automations
  - Attributes show `total_items` (all available) and `stored_items` (actually stored in attributes)

#### Important note about night-time polling
- Pulling data at night may trigger email notifications from Mashov about account activity/logins. If this is undesirable:
  - Prefer scheduling the daily/weekly refresh to daytime hours (e.g., `14:00`).
  - Use the Options screen or YAML to set `schedule_type` and `schedule_time` accordingly.
  - Avoid long-running `interval` mode during overnight hours.

### Configuration via configuration.yaml (optional)
You can also configure the refresh schedule via YAML. Values in YAML override the Options UI.

```yaml
mashov:
  # Scheduling
  schedule_type: daily        # daily | weekly | interval
  schedule_time: "14:00"      # for daily/weekly
  schedule_day: 0             # 0=Monday ... 6=Sunday
  schedule_days: [0, 2, 4]    # optional multiple days for weekly
  schedule_interval: 120      # minutes (for interval mode)

  # Other (optional)
  homework_days_back: 7
  homework_days_forward: 21
  api_base: "https://web.mashov.info/api/"
  max_items_in_attributes: 100  # 10-500, limits items stored in DB
```

---

## 🧠 Entities (per child)

For each child **N**, these sensors are created:

- **Weekly Plan** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_weekly_plan`
- **Homework** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_homework`
- **Behavior** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_behavior`
- **Timetable** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_timetable`
- **Lessons History** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_lessons_history`
- **Grades** – `sensor.mashov_<student_id>_grades` – 🆕 **New in v1.0.3**

**State** = number of items.  
**Attributes** (common): `items`, `formatted_summary`, `formatted_by_date`, `formatted_by_subject` (and for timetable: also table helpers).

> **Tip**: Use `{{ state_attr('sensor.mashov_<id>_homework', 'items') }}` to access raw lists.
>
> **Note**: The `items` attribute contains cleaned, size-optimized recent items (technical fields removed). To see all items:
> - `total_items` = total number of items available
> - `stored_items` = number of items in the `items` attribute
> - Full raw data is always available via `coordinator.data` for advanced automations

### Global Entities
- **Holidays Sensor** – `sensor.mashov_holidays`  
  State = number of holidays. Attributes: `items`, `formatted_summary`, `formatted_by_date`.

- **Holidays Calendar** – `calendar.mashov_holidays_calendar` – 🆕 **New in v1.0.3**  
  Full calendar integration for school holidays. Shows events in Home Assistant calendar view with start/end dates.  
  _Contributed by [@aviadlevy](https://github.com/aviadlevy)_

---

## 🔔 Automation Blueprint: Daily Homework & Behavior Announcement

A ready-to-use blueprint that speaks today's homework and behavior in Hebrew at a fixed time, with safe defaults and volume handling.

One‑click import (My Home Assistant):

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the blueprint import dialog with a specific blueprint URL.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/blueprint_import.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fmain%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fmashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml)

If you hit a cache issue when importing, use the commit‑pinned link:

[Import pinned version](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fe9aade5%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fmashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml)

Blueprint file location: `blueprints/automation/mashov/mashov_daily_homework_announce.yaml`.

What does it do?
- Daily voice announcement at **15:00** that reads the student’s **name**, **today’s behaviors**, and **today’s homework** (Hebrew).
- Runs **only in daytime** and **skips holidays** using your Mashov holidays sensor (`Items[start/end]`).
- Triggers **only if there is data for today** in the homework and/or behavior sensors.
- Temporarily **sets the speaker to max volume**, speaks via **`tts.speak`** (configurable), then **restores the original volume** after playback.
- Works with any `media_player` (Sonos, Nest, etc.); volume restore is state-aware.
- Fully **templated blueprint**: select your own Mashov sensors and speaker at import time.
- Safe defaults: 15:00 schedule, Hebrew (`he-IL`) TTS, 07:00–22:00 guard rails.
- GitHub-friendly: no hardcoded entity IDs; can be imported with a **My Home Assistant** one-click link.

How to use
1. Click the import button above and select your `holiday_sensor`, `homework_sensor`, `behavior_sensor`, `media_player`, and optional `tts_service`.
2. Save the automation. By default it runs every day at 15:00.

---

## 🎒 Automation Blueprint: Bag Reminder (Tomorrow's Subjects)

One‑click import (My Home Assistant):

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and show the blueprint import dialog with a specific blueprint URL.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/blueprint_import.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/blueprint_import/?blueprint_url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FNirBY%2Fha-mashov%2Fmain%2Fblueprints%2Fautomation%2Fmashov%2Fbag_reminder_tomorrow.yaml)

What does it do?
- Runs once daily at 18:00 to help a student pack their school bag for tomorrow.
- Skips automatically if it’s night-time, Saturday, or a listed holiday (from the holiday sensor).
- Reads tomorrow’s subjects only when timetable data actually exists for tomorrow.
- Builds a Hebrew TTS message: “שלום {Student}… אנא לסדר תיק למחר… {subjects + teacher names [+ plan]}”.
- Temporarily raises the speaker to a configurable max volume, then restores the previous (or fallback) volume after TTS ends.
- Pulls subjects and teacher names from the Mashov timetable; optionally appends each lesson’s “plan” from the weekly plan sensor.
- Waits for the speaker state to finish playing before restoring volume, to avoid cutting the message.
- Provides rich trace/log lines explaining why it ran or skipped (night block, Saturday, holiday, has data).

Blueprint file location: `blueprints/automation/mashov/bag_reminder_tomorrow.yaml`.

How to use
1. Click the import button above, pick your Mashov timetable sensor, (optional) weekly plan sensor, holiday sensor, media player and voice settings.
2. Save the automation. Defaults: 18:00, Hebrew, night guard 22:00–07:00.

---

## 🛠️ Services

### `mashov.refresh_now`
Trigger an immediate refresh.
```yaml
service: mashov.refresh_now
data:
  entry_id: YOUR_ENTRY_ID  # optional; if omitted, all entries refresh
```

Calling without `entry_id` refreshes all configured Mashov hubs.

---

## 🧱 Lovelace Cards (Examples)
You can quickly add cards to display Mashov data. Use `!include` to import ready-made cards.

Files:
- `examples/lovelace/cards/weekly_plan_table_advanced.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/behavior_list_by_date.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/homework_list_by_date.yaml`
- `examples/lovelace/cards/refresh_all_button.yaml`

Copy these files into your Home Assistant config at `/config/lovelace/cards/examples/`, then reference them like this:

Note: HACS installs only `custom_components/`. Copy the example card files to your `/config/examples/` (or paste the YAML into UI cards) if you want to use `!include`.

Advanced weekly plan (table) via include:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/weekly_plan_table_advanced.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/weekly_plan_table_advanced.png" alt="Weekly timetable + plan + holidays" width="50%" style="max-width:50%; height:auto;" /></p>

Behavior events grouped by date:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/behavior_list_by_date.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/behavior_list_by_date.png" alt="Behavior grouped by date" width="30%" style="max-width:30%; height:auto;" /></p>

Homework grouped by date:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/homework_list_by_date.yaml
```
Example preview:

<p align="left"><img src="examples/screenshots/homework_list_by_date.png" alt="Homework grouped by date" width="30%" style="max-width:30%; height:auto;" /></p>

Refresh all hubs button:
```yaml
views:
  - title: Mashov
    cards:
      - !include lovelace/cards/examples/refresh_all_button.yaml
```

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

- **401 / 403**: re-check credentials and school choice. Try **Reconfigure** or **Remove & Add** the integration again.
- **Different host**: open **Options → API base** and paste the base prefix you see in your browser DevTools Network tab (up to `/api/`).  
  Common defaults: `https://web.mashov.info/api/`, sometimes `https://mobileapi.mashov.info/api/`.
- **No schools in dropdown**: temporary catalog issue — the flow falls back to text; enter the name or Semel to resolve.
- **Autocomplete not working**: the dropdown is limited to 200 schools for performance; try typing the school name to filter the list.
- **Multiple kids missing**: ensure your account actually lists multiple students in Mashov. Check HA logs for `custom_components.mashov` debug entries.
- **Session errors**: if you see "Unclosed client session" errors, restart Home Assistant to clear any stale connections.
- **"New Device" emails**: v1.0.5+ includes session persistence to prevent repetitive "New Device login" emails. If you still receive them, ensure the integration is not being restarted too frequently (e.g., watchlists or full system restarts) and that `custom_components.mashov.cache` exists in `.storage`.

### Enable debug logs
```yaml
logger:
  logs:
    custom_components.mashov: debug
```

---

## 🔐 Privacy & Security
- Credentials are stored by Home Assistant in the config entry store.
- The integration mirrors the Mashov web client behavior (headers, cookies, API calls). Endpoints may change without notice.

---

## 📄 License
MIT © 2025


---

## 📜 Changelog
See the full changelog in `CHANGELOG.md`.
